Write how to connect to external db (#4211)
airbytehq/airbyte: docs/operator-guides/configuring-airbyte-db.md

# Configuring Airbyte Internal Database

Airbyte uses different objects to store internal states and metadata. This data is stored and manipulated by the various Airbyte components, but you have the ability to manage how to deploy this database by using either:
- By default, Airbyte spins-up its own Postgres database as part of one of th Docker service as described in its `docker-compose.yml` file: `airbyte/db`.

> - Dedicated custom Postgres instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Through a dedicated custom Postgres instance.
```

The various entities persisted in this internal database can be categorized as:

1. Jobs Database: Data about executions of Airbyte Jobs and various runtime metadata.
2. Temporal Database: Data about the internal orchestrator used by Airbyte, Temporal.io (Tasks, Workflow data, Events, and visibility data).
3. Connection Configuration Database: Connectors, Sync Connections and various Airbyte configuration objects.

Note that no actual data from the source (or destination) connectors ever transits or is retained in this internal database.

> If you need to interact with it, for example to make back-ups or perform some clean-up maintenances, you can also access to Export and Import functionalities of this database via API, or the UI (in the Admin page, in the Configuration Tab).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to interact with it, for example, to make back-ups or perform some clean-up maintenances, you can also gain access to the Export and Import functionalities of this database via the API or the UI (in the Admin page, in the Configuration Tab).
```

> ## Connecting to some Postgres database

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Connecting to an External Postgres database
```

Reviewer 2: Is it worth mentioning in this section that if someone is using an external database then they can remove the `db` service from their docker-compose?

> Let's say we want to use a Postgres instance that is not automatically started by Airbyte, we can for example run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we want to use a Postgres instance that is not automatically started by Airbyte, we can run the following command:
```

> Let's say we want to use a Postgres instance that is not automatically started by Airbyte, we can for example run the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's walk through what is required to use a Postgres instance that is not managed by Airbyte. First, for the sake of the tutorial, we will run a new instance of Postgres in its own docker container with the command below. If you already have Postgres running elsewhere, you can skip this step and use the credentials for that in future steps.
```

I was confused in the existing phrasing about what this command was doing. It's just setup for the tutorial, but current phrasing makes it sound like this is the solution.

```bash
docker run --rm --name airbyte-postgres -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=password -p 3000:5432 -d postgres
```

In order to configure Airbyte services with this new database, we need to edit the following environment variables declared in the `.env` file (used by the docker-compose command afterward):

```bash
DATABASE_USER=postgres
DATABASE_PASSWORD=password
DATABASE_HOST=host.docker.internal # refers to localhost of host
DATABASE_PORT=3000
DATABASE_DB=postgres
```

> Additionally, you are free to redefine the JDBC URL constructed in the environment variable `DATABASE_URL` if you need to provide extra arguments to the Jdbc driver (for example, to handle SSL):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, you are free to redefine the JDBC URL constructed in the environment variable `DATABASE_URL` if you need to provide extra arguments to the JDBC driver (for example, to handle SSL):
```

```bash
DATABASE_URL=jdbc:postgresql://${DATABASE_HOST}:${DATABASE_PORT}/${DATABASE_DB}?ssl=true&sslmode=require
```

## Initializing the database

{% hint style="info" %}
This step is only required when you setup Airbyte with a custom database for the first time.
{% endhint %}

> If you provide an empty database to Airbyte and start Airbyte up for the first time, the server and scheduler services won't be able to successfully start at this point as there is no data in the database yet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you provide an empty database to Airbyte and start Airbyte up for the first time, the server and scheduler services won't be able to start because there is no data in the database yet.
```

We need to make sure that the proper tables have been created by running the init SQL script that you can find [here](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/blob/master/airbyte-db/src/main/resources/schema.sql).

You can replace:

> - "airbyte" by your actual "DATABASE_DB" value
> - "docker" by your actual "DATABASE_USER" value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "airbyte" with your actual "DATABASE_DB" value
- "docker" with your actual "DATABASE_USER" value
```

then run the SQL script to populate the database manually.

> Now, when you run `docker-compose up`, Airbyte server and scheduler should be connecting to the configured database successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, when you run `docker-compose up`, the Airbyte server and scheduler should connect to the configured database successfully.
```

## When upgrading Airbyte

> When updating Airbyte as described in [the upgrade process docs](upgrading-airbyte.md), scripts are also published in order to handle necessary migrations. These are introduced whenever some changes to data models are necessary. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When updating Airbyte as described in [the upgrade process docs](upgrading-airbyte.md), scripts are also published in order to handle necessary migrations. These are introduced whenever we make changes to the data model.
```

Those scripts assume that they are being applied on top of an empty database, but with tables already created with the correct schema. They will re-populate and import whatever was saved in the upgraded archive back into the database.

> Thus, if you deploy Airbyte using an external database, you might need to flush and perform updates to the table schemas by deleting them and re-initializing them as described previously (using the latest `schema.sql` script). This step is implicitly done on the default docker postgres database when running `docker-compose down -v` or when deleting docker volumes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, if you deploy Airbyte using an external database, you might need to flush and perform updates to the table schemas by deleting them and re-initializing them as described previously (using the latest `schema.sql` script). This step is implicitly done on the default Docker Postgres database when running `docker-compose down -v` or when deleting Docker volumes).
```

## Accessing the default database located in docker airbyte-db

> In extraordinary circumstances while using the default `airbyte/db` Postgres database, if a developer wants to access the data that tracks jobs, they can do so with the following instructions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In extraordinary circumstances while using the default `airbyte-db` Postgres database, if a developer wants to access the data that tracks jobs, they can do so with the following instructions.
```
